[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: Let's talk more about
these meta tags that we're seeing.
HTML needs to be present,
always needs to be there.
Again, it's just letting the browser
know this is an HTML document,
please treat it as such.
The head tag is where all your metadata
goes, nothing in here gets displayed.
And the body is like,
that's your actual content on the page.
So typically your head's gonna be
30 lines, your body will be, if
it's a short page only a couple lines but
it often can also be thousands of lines.
So tens of thousands of lines even.
So we saw some h1s.
There's actually h1 down to the h6 if
you go, if you're using older browsers,
even in the newest browsers you can
actually go to h8, h10, stuff like that.
I don't know why you would.
I don't ever use much more than like h3,
or h4, but it exists, it's there for you.
And like we saw before, the browser
has some default styles for it,
notice it was bold, it was larger,
there was spacing around it.
The browser just assumes
that he's given me an h1,
I think he wants it to look like a title.
But we'll see later how to change that.
Paragraphs, just to note, it's like, here
is a block of text that is a paragraph,
please display it separated
from other things.
It's just like a paragraph,
exactly what you think of in terms
of semantically what a paragraph is.
>> Brian Holt: And then, a div is both
very useful and very frustrating.
But it's a separation of content.
Like, it's a container.
Just like,
if I give you a piece of tupperware,
you can't assume anything about
what's in the tupperware.
It's kind of like the same idea of a div.
It's just a container
to hold other things.
It has no meaning, like a paragraph
means like I'm gonna have text in
here like it's a tupperware
specifically for text.
That's the weirdest example I've ever
used, but we will stick with that.
A div is a container for anything.
And then, you will kind of
define what's going to be in it
using other means that we'll
kind of discuss later.
But you'll see lots of it and
your temptation when
you're doing web development like I
still do it so you'll definitely do,
it is to put everything in the div, like
everything just like we call div soup,
or dividers, that just like you just
have like this total huge mess of divs.
You'll kind of figure out the balance,
or you won't, like me, and
you'll just continue doing it for
the rest of your life, so whatever.
[LAUGH] Confessions of a web developer.
>> Nina Zakharenko: [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: So
we'll just go over some of the more
used tags, ul stands for unordered list.
You find out there's
a lot of abbreviations.
It's annoying, but
you just get used to them.
So there's an unordered list.
So you notice like on my slides,
I have like a bullet point list.
That's an unordered list.
It's just kinda saying,
I'm about to give you a list of items and
there's no specific ordering to it.
Like you can re-arrange stuff and
nothing would really change.
No order is implied whatsoever.
Ordered lists is saying,
I'm about to give you a list,
and please maintain the order of
this list because it's important.
The steps to, I don't know,
bathing someone, never mind,
I'm not gonna go there.
Let's think of something else, like-
>> Nina Zakharenko: Driving somewhere?
>> Brian Holt: Driving somewhere,
like open the door, get in the car,
turn on the car, and go.
Like you can't really mix those up,
like if you try and
start the car before you're in it,
you're gonna have a bad time.
Thank you.
[LAUGH] I didn't like where that
other one was going, so [LAUGH].
This is a family friendly
audience I think.
[LAUGH]
So yes, please like it implies ordered,
please maintain it and you'll notice most
the time ordered lists start with like
numbers or letters like one, two,
three, A, B, C or something like that.
Something to denote that
it has some order to it.
And then,
an li goes inside either one of those,
it's just saying like this is
an element inside of here.
So why is this really cool?
Like if you're doing an ordered list,
and say,
we're going back to
the car driving example,
we forgot to put in the open the door
step, and we had all ready numbers in one,
two, three, four, five, six, seven,
say we had to add a second step in again.
We would not have to go back and
change all those numbers.
I'm sure all of you have done that before,
your making a list on a document, and
you have to go back and
change all the God damn numbers cuz
you added a new second element.
You can have it so your styling will just,
I have five elements,
I know I have to put five tags and so
the second one always gets the second one.
>> Speaker 3: In the chat, they're asking
for a link to some references on these
tags, I guess maybe the documentation
on listing them all.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
[INAUDIBLE] what's that?
>> Speaker 4: I can send one.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yeah,
I have [INAUDIBLE] as well.
>> Speaker 3: Sure, post it in chat.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, that'd be great.
Looks like Nina will take care of it,
but the best place for
documentation for everything web in
my personal opinion is the MDN or
it's the Mozilla Developer Network.
I'm sure many of you use Firefox.
Great browser.
Great company and so
they put out something called the MDN.
Which is essentially just documentation
for how to be a web developer.
At least for me,
it's the authoritative source of truth.
So if I do not know something,
you can go there,
and if it says it on the MDN,
it is just truth, just solid truth.
So yes, you can search for
MDN space li, and
then, I bet you the top result would be,
well, let's just try it.
So mdn li,
right there.
Let's get rid of this.
>> Brian Holt: So
I don't expect you to read this, but
this will tell you everything that you
have ever wanted to know about the li.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, great source.
I will recommend not using W3 schools,
that's usually one of the top results and
it's usually the worst one.
>> Nina Zakharenko: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Brian Holt: [INAUDIBLE] W3 schools.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yeah.
>> Brian Holt: Thank you Nina,
just kidding.
No, it's fine.
It's very simplified.
And so,
it might be good to start out with.
>> Brian Holt: Cool.
So do we have any questions about lists?
I think we're about to
do an example with them.
So we'll get some hands
on experience with that.
Here's a good example.
So my favorite social media sites.
The top one obviously and
the best ever would be reddit.com.
Thank you.
But let's talk about the fact that
I used an ol versus a ul here.
Like this is implying that
there is an order to this like,
if you put Instagram on the top,
it's not the same list anymore.
Like this one implies that Reddit
is my absolute favorite, and
then Instagram is my third favorite.
That's what that ol means,
if I had put a ul there it's like
here's a list of sites that I like and
no necessary order implied.
Now, you might be asking yourself,
well, why does this matter?
Like ul versus ol?
For the most part it's just gonna
be the developer that sees it.
There are some default stylings to it but,
when we get to the CSS part like
I'll show you how to change it.
You can make an ol look like a ul and
like, it'd be totally
transparent to the user.
So why?
Why do we painstakingly make sure
that we're using the correct tag for
every single thing that we do?
This concept is called semantic HTML,
and it's going to make your life easier,
because you're going to write code,
then you're gonna go back and
do something else for three months and
you're gonna come back to it, and
you're gonna look at it, and it's like,
what the hell was I thinking?
Why did I do it this way?
If you do get into this habit
of doing semantic HTML,
it makes everything just really easy,
because you come back and
you say, I made this list and there's
order to it, so I should not change this.
So it's kind of like you communicating
either A, with your future self, or B,
with one of your coworkers.
Cuz your coworker's gonna come in here and
say, why the hell did he do this,
this way?
And you'll find out a lot of the habits
I'm gonna try and get you into, or
we're going to try and
get you into, is for that.
It's for service to your future self.
Because you write something once and
you're like this is the greatest
thing ever, I'm never gonna have to touch
it again and then you're just gonna be so
sad when you have to touch it again.
[LAUGH] It makes the difference to
get into good habits right now.
>> Speaker 3: They want you to explain
semantic market a little bit more.
>> Brian Holt: Sure.
>> Brian Holt: Let's see, it's semantic
market, and we'll get into more of it as
we go further and further, but it's using
the correct tag for the correct situation.
So for
example, there's another tag that we have
not talked about yet, it's called article.
As you might imagine an article
describes an article.
If you were on a news site you wouldn't
expect your article to be inside
an article tag and then everything inside
of it you knew was a part of an article.
Now, article doesn't have any special
power that a div doesn't have.
It's just an article is special
tupperware just for articles.
And so, when you look at an article,
this is an article,
this container can only contain articles.
But you look at a div, and you're like,
I don't know what's gonna go in here.
You have to go through and read all of the
code to figure out, what the hell did I
stick in this tupperware and
why is it moldy, or something like that.
>> Nina Zakharenko: [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: I'm sticking with
the tupperware example,
I'm really proud of this one.
Not as proud as I'm of the bath one,
whatever.
It's like putting a label
on your tupperware.
It's letting your future self
know like this is what's in
here because it's kind of a black box and
you kinda have to like poke around and
figure out what's in there,
it's a labeling system for it.
>> Speaker 4: Does it also make it a lot
easier and more powerful when you start
doing dynamic pages with CSS because you
can reference those tags in the code?
>> Brian Holt: That's also true, so it
makes those like tags addressable by CSS.
It doesn't make sense to you right now,
that's okay, we'll get to it but
it's also giving more hooks for
your CSS to pick up on, thank you.
>> Brian Holt: Cool, is that kind a make
sense that the tupperware labeling sort of
example, we'll stick with that.